hey everyone Megan here with a mi Club
we're and London X doll requested us to
do a braces video and since I have
personal experience with braces I
thought I'd share with you guys some of
your options as well as my own
experiences with braces so if you're
wondering why I sound a little funny
while I'm talking it's because I decided
to wear my retainers in this video I
don't really like to show that I have
retainers when I shoot videos I usually
take them out so I do have to wear my
retainers for 18 hours a day so I would
have to wear them a lot still moving on
to our options for braces and
straightening your teeth when I was
looking for braces I researched a lot of
different options and I went to a lot of
different orthodontist to view my
options and prices really do vary with
all your options because you're
different from case to case it really
depends if you have a really slight case
of crooked teeth or if you have extreme
it can really jack up the price so with
traditional metal braces they kind of
start around
I thought cheapest I found at the time
was like between three to four thousand
dollars another option that you have is
also the traditional clear braces and
that's with the clear brackets but then
they have the metal wires so they're not
completely clear but they're better than
your regular metal braces and those are
a little bit more about a thousand
dollars more so I think they're you know
between four and five thousand dollars
for those Oh another option that I found
out that a lot of people don't really
know about is the eye braces or the
lingual braces and these are braces that
go on the inside of your mouth instead
of the outside and they straighten you
know on the opposite side I believe I
want to say Miley Cyrus had these braces
they make you talk funny because the
braces are on the inside they're also
extremely expensive they start at like
eight thousand dollars and this is
because they're made out of gold I
almost did this option and then I found
out that I had her too small of a mouth
to this so that's one of the cons to the
braces is only a very select amount of
people can actually get these braces I
went to the dentist about a month ago to
get my checkup for my teeth and a
cleaning and I stumbled across this
pamphlet and I thought this was a great
thing to grab to show you guys this is a
completely new thing that they have out
right now and it's called simply clear
and these are completely clear
traditional braces and that means that
the bracket and the wire is clear and
they're really really cool I thought
that was really interesting
it's really awesome how far technology
has come with these kinds of things and
these simply clear braces actually cost
about the same as Invisalign they're
between five and six thousand dollars so
since I mentioned Invisalign I saved
that one for last because that's the
option that I chose to go the route that
I went and those start at about five
thousand dollars so I'm going to tell
you guys my experience in more detail
about Invisalign so with my specific
experience and my case I have and or I
had / still have a baby tooth
it's very rare most dentists that I see
or orthodontist are actually really
blown away by this because they're not
baby teeth are not meant to last past
when you're a baby and because this
tooth never fell out the mature tooth
that was supposed to grow there ended up
growing in sideways it looked like this
in the x-ray it was really freaky
looking
it was completely horizontal in my face
so that caused another tooth to get
pushed out because it had nowhere to go
and so I had a tooth that stuck out here
and then I had crowding on the bottom so
that was my specific case it wasn't too
extreme but almost it was almost too
extreme for Invisalign they a lot of
dentists told me that I could not
achieve straight teeth with Invisalign
but I did find a really really good
orthodontist that specialized he was one
of the top Invisalign orthodontists in
my area so that's why I chose him and he
said that
of course I could do it and that he
could do it and that is why I have to
wear my retainers for so long you know
like I said earlier I have to wear them
for at least 18 hours a day until I can
get that tooth the baby tooth removed in
an implant that's the right size put
there so if you're wondering why I have
to wear them for an obscene amount of
time still that's why the whole process
I would say took about almost two years
from start to finish what they first do
is they go in after you've been approved
to do the Invisalign you go in and you
get your impressions taken and then they
send those impressions and molds off to
a lab and this lab takes it puts these
molds into the computer and they kind of
plot and map out your process and your
journey that your tooth is going to take
in two straight vil when they're moving
your teeth around if you have a tooth
like mine that's stuck out they put what
is called a button on that tooth and
they don't show this in the commercial
so you're thinking that they're just
clear trays but they're actually not you
get these buttons put on your teeth or I
want to they're not ceramic or maybe
they are I don't know they're the same
color as your teeth and they're just
little squares they put them on the
teeth that they really need to move as
well as your back
for teeth to snap the Invisalign in
place and this helps to move the teeth
around so after you get all your trays
back from the lab they only give you two
of your trays at a time and you're
wearing your trays about 20 to 22 hours
a day and that's pretty much only giving
you two hours a day to eat three of your
meals so you have to wear them all the
time and you definitely need to listen
to your dentist when he's telling you
the amount of time you need to wear them
because if you're not wearing it that
amount of time it is going to push back
your date when you finish and they'll
also to punish you keep you in the same
trays so you're ready to graduate to
your next trays and he'll say no you
haven't been wearing them as long you
need to stay in them and that did happen
to me a few times so I some
of the trades I had to wear for four
weeks straight and that it really can it
adds up throughout the whole process and
can push you back months so definitely
listen to what they say if you really
want to have straight teeth by the due
date keeping them clean you have to have
to have to brush every time you eat
because when you put the Invisalign
trays on your teeth after you eat
bacteria sits in there and you can end
up getting gum disease like all kinds of
bacteria so you have to brush and floss
after you eat brush your trays all the
time like I was saying a little bit ago
you have to wear these trays for two
weeks at a time and when you get your
new trays just like when you get your
regular braces and they go in and they
tighten your braces every visit and they
get painful afterwards you get the same
exact thing with your Invisalign so the
first two days that you had your new
trays on teeth are really sore it's
really hard to eat
just taking some Tylenol is really good
for that I didn't notice any pain that
was really I could tough it out without
taking the Tylenol you could tough it
out you're tough I know you are so I
can't express enough listen to your
orthodontist no matter what option you
choose for braces just take everything
that they say to heart and definitely
listen to them because they know what
they're doing they know what it's going
to take to get those results that you
want and I hope you guys enjoyed this
video and I hope it was everything you
wanted Thank You London xtal for
requesting this video we really
appreciate your guys's comments please
remember to comment rate and subscribe
and I will see you guys next time bye